Note: for each question, the correct answer is the first answer

Video 1 Questions

1. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 1:00; conceptual question

Why is the gravitational attraction between you and your computer too small for you to notice?
Neither you nor your computer has enough mass to cause a noticable gravitational attraction
You and your computer are too close for the gravitational attraction to be significant
Humans are too small to detect the force of gravity
The gravitational attraction between you and your computer is disrupted by the larger gravitational field generated by the earth

2. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 1:45; factual question

Which of the following is an example of the Weak Interaction?
A neutron in a radioactive Cesium atom is converted into a proton, leading to the release of a few particles
Light from the sun collides with a satellite orbiting Earth and exerts a small push on the satellite
Two protons bound together in a Helium nucleus resist separation despite a repulsive electromagnetic force acting on them
A distant galaxy exerts a small but detectable gravitational pull on the  Earth

3. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 3:30; factual question

Roughly how many times stronger is the Weak Interaction than gravity?
10,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000
10
1,000,000
The Weak Interaction is less strong than gravity

4. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 4:00; factual question

Why don't you and your computer experience any attraction or repulsion due to the Weak Interaction?
The weak interaction only acts over extremely small distances
The weak interaction between you and your computer is counteracted by the other forces
You and your computer have no net charge
Neither you nor your computer has enough mass to induce a significant Weak Interaction

5. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 5:40; factual question

Which of the following is a difference between gravity and the electromagnetic force?
Gravity is only ever attractive while the electromagnetic force can both attract and repel
Gravity is a much more powerful force than electromagnetism
Gravity can only act over large distances while the electromagnetic force can act over large and small distances
The electromagnetic force can only act over small distances while gravity can act over small or large distances

6. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 6:50; factual question

Electricity and magnetism can be shown to be two cases of the same force if we:
View them in different frames of reference
Switch which charges we call positive and which charges we call negative
Consider both the effects over small distances and the effects over large distances
Consider both the attractive and repulsive properties of the two forces

7. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 8:15; factual question

Which of the following are the primary two fundamental forces acting in opposition between the positively-charged protons in an atom's nucleus?
The Strong Force and the Electromagnetic Force
Gravity and the Weak Interaction
Gravity and the Electromagnetic Force
The Strong Force and the Weak Interaction

8. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 10:00; factual question

Why does the universe have a very uneven distribution of mass but a relatively equal distribution of charge?
Positive and negative charges "cancel out" and become a neutral charge when they combine while masses only grow larger as they combine
Masses tend to repel while charges tend to attract
Masses tend to attract while charges tend to repel
The gravitational interaction acting between masses is stronger than the electromagnetic interaction acting between charges

9. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 10:00; conceptual question

In your body, there are a tremendous amount of negatively-charged electrons. Your computer also contains a huge number of negatively-charged electrons. We know that like charges repel, but you and your computer are not repelled apart. Which of the following explains why?
The electrons' negative charges are balanced by the positive charges of an equal number of protons
An attractive gravitational force balances out this repulsion
The electromagnetic force only acts over very small distances
The Electromagnetic force only acts over very large distances

10. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 9:30; conceptual question

Which of the following is a similarity between the Weak Interaction and the Strong Force?
Both act only over very small distances
Both are stronger than the Electromagnetic force
Both are weaker than Gravity
Both are responsible for attractions between distant galaxies

11. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 7:20; conceptual question

Which force is stronger than the Electromagnetic Force?
Strong Force
Gravity
Weak Interaction
Electromagnetic Force is the strongest

12. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 9:10; conceptual question

Roughly how many times stronger is the Strong Force than gravity?
10^38
100
10^18
The Strong Force is weaker than gravity

13. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 3:50; conceptual question

Which of the following would have to be true for the Weak Interaction to cause repulsion or attraction between two objects?
The objects would have to be extremely close to each other
The objects would have to have the same mass
The objects would have to be extremely far away from each other
The objects would have to have different masses

14. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 0:25; conceptual question

Which force keeps us from jumping off of Earth?
Gravity
Strong Force
Weak Interaction
Electromagnetic Force

15. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 6:10; conceptual question

What does the Coulomb Force refer to?
The repulsion of objects with similar charge and the attraction of objects with different charge
The repulsion of objects with similar mass and the attraction of objects with different mass
The repulsion of objects with similar temperature and the attraction of objects with different temperature
The repulsion of objects with similar density and the attraction of objects with different density


Video 2 Questions

1. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 0:30; conceptual question [overlaps with material from video 1]

Which of the following describes the effect of gravity on a cloud of atoms?
The atoms move to the center of the mass of the atoms
The atoms move away from the center of the mass of the atoms
The atoms spin around the center of the mass of the atoms
Gravity has no effect on a cloud of atoms

2. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 1:40; conceptual question

Which of the following occurs as a cloud of atoms gets more dense?
Temperature increases
Temperature decreases
Mass increases
Mass decreases

3. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 1:40; factual question

Which temperature does a cloud of hydrogen atoms approach as it gets denser in the process of becoming a star?
10 Million Kelvin
0 Kelvin
10,000 Kelvin
10 Billion Kelvin

4. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 2:40; factual question

Which of the following can overcome the Coulomb Force?
High temperature and high pressure
Low temperature and high pressure
High temperature and low pressure
Low temperature and low pressure

5. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 4:20; factual question

Which of the following prevents a star from collapsing as a result of gravity?
Energy released from the fusion of hydrogen atoms provides outward pressure
The fusion of hydrogen atoms decreases the temperature of the star
The gravitational pull of other stars nearby
The Weak Interaction

6. Corresponding time in video (approximate): ADD; conceptual question

How are supermassive stars different from other stars?
Fusion occurs very fast
Fusion occurs very slow
Fusion occurs in the reverse order
Fusion does not occur at all

7. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 5:00; factual question

Which of the following is the FIRST product of two hydrogen atoms fusing together?
Deuterium
Oxygen
Helium
Beryllium

8. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 2:40; factual question [overlaps with material from video 1]

Once hydrogen atoms get close enough together, which of the following keeps them together?
The Strong Force
The Electromagnetic Force
Gravity
The Weak Interaction

9. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 3:35 and 6:10; factual question

When two nuclei fuse together, how does the mass of the combined nucleus compare to the mass of each of the original nucleus?
The mass of the combined nucleus is smaller
The mass of the combined nucleus is larger
The mass of the combined nucleus is the same
It is not possible for two nuclei to fuse together

10. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 6:45; conceptual question

If we say that our Sun is a main sequence star, what does that tell us about the Sun?
Hydrogen atoms in the Sun are fusing together and becoming Helium
The Sun is a supermassive star
The Sun does not experience the force of Gravity but does experience the Coulomb Force
The Sun is comprised of 10 million Hydrogen atoms

11. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 0:20; factual question [Overlaps with material from video 1]

Which force would cause a massive cloud of hydrogen atoms to move together?
Gravity
Strong Force
Weak Interaction
Electromagnetic Force

12. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 1:35; factual question

Which of the following occurs as density increases?
Temperature increases
Volume increases
Mass increases
None of the above

13. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 5:20; factual question

Which of the following is a product of Hydrogen fusion?
Helium
Oxygen
Cesium
Carbon

14. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 6:50; factual question

Which of the following terms accurately describes the Sun?
Main sequence star
Supermassive star
Alternative sequence star
None of the above

15. Corresponding time in video (approximate): 3:20; factual question

Which of the following terms best decribes a fusion reaction?
Ignition
Combustion
Decomposition
Displacement


General Knowledge Questions:

1.
Which of the following lists is ordered from smallest to largest?
Electron, proton, nucleus, atom
Atom, electron, proton, nucleus
Electron, nucleus, atom, neutron
Neutron, nucleus, electrom, atom

2.
Which of the following defines what element an atom is?
Its number of protons
Its number of neutrons
Its number of electrons
Its mass

3.
Suppose that in some atom, a proton is converted into a neutron. What changes as a result of this conversion?
The atom's element
The atom's mass (in atomic mass units)
The atom's velocity

4.
Which of the following lists is ordered from smallest to largest?
Star, solar system, galaxy, universe
Galaxy, solar system, Milky Way, universe
Planet, galaxy, star, solar system
Earth, solar system, universe, galaxy

5.
Which of the following are located in the nucleus of an atom?
Protons and neutrons
Only protons
Only electrons
Neutrons and electrons

6.
Which of the following has the least mass?
An electron
A proton
A neutron
A hydrogen atom

7.
What percent of an atom's space does its nucleus occupy?
Less than 1%
10%
50%
More than 90%

8.
In the famous equation attributed to Albert Einstein, E = mc^2, what does the letter "m" represent?
Mass
Momentum
Moment of inertia
Moles

9.
If I were to heat up an inflated balloon, which of the the following would occur?
The balloon would expand
The balloon would shrink
None of these answers are correct
The balloon could expand or shrink depending on whether it's filled with air or helium gas

10.
What is the Coulomb force?
The force that causes opposite charges to attract and similar charges to repel
The force that causes similar charges to attract and opposite charges to repel
The force you feel pulling you to the side when you drive around a turn at a high speed
The force that causes the moon to stay a constant distance away from the Earth
